# Meeting Minutes 2024-09-25

- CX TG Requirements Ad-Hoc Meeting: Single or Multiple Simultaneous CX selections, Custom Subranges

- Attendees

  Darius Rad (Bluespec)
  Jan Gray (Individual)
  Guy Lemieux (Individual)
  Anton Kuzmin (Individual)
  David Weaver (Akeana)
  Rich Fuhler (Andes)

- Discussion

Jan presented a summary of the issue and past mailing list discussions,
posted to
https://lists.riscv.org/g/tech-composable-custom-extensions/message/242
and included below. General concurrence with this summary. Guy noted
potential impact of someday transition to 64b opcodes.

Jan recommended single selection per hart, but was open to a forward
compatibility requirement to support multi-selection in some future
standard, without resort to breaking changes.

Some felt the need for the additional complexity of multi-selection is
not yet demonstrated. There followed extensive discussion of a likely
scenario involving legacy custom instructions tightly interleaved (in
a hot code path) with a composable extension's custom instructions.

The single-selection and basis spec design handles this correctly
but requires repeatedly selecting back and forth between the legacy
custom extension(s) and the composable custom extension (incurring
additional CSR writes and possible CPU pipeline disruptions).

With multi-selection, software might select a custom opcode segment for its
CX use that does not conflict with ts legacy custom instructions' opcodes,
eliminating the need for many CX selector CSR writes in the hot code.

Note, however, this scenario does not occur in portable (CPU agnostic)
CX software that never issues CPU-specific legacy custom instructions,
only CX custom instructions. Proposed terminology:

* CX software: independently authored & versioned software that discovers,
  selects, and issues custom instructions of a CX.

* Agile CX software: CX software that includes no CPU-specific legacy
  custom instructions. Works on any CX framework compatible CPU.

* CPU-specific CX software: CX software that includes CPU-specific
  legacy custom instructions. Might fail on a CPU that lacks these
  legacy custom instructions.

The TG's anticipated catalog of mix-and-match reusable CXs and CX software
consists of agile CX software binaries. But less-reusable CPU-specific
CX software will also be commonplace within an organization or market
segment, composing CX(s) with software optimized for specific CPU(s) and
their legacy custom extension(s).

Guy proposed an alternative to multi-selection to support the interleaved
legacy + CX instructions scenario: a CSR with one bit per custom spaces
segment, to determine which custom opcodes segments are subject to CX
multiplexing vs. which always specify built-in legacy custom instructions.
Darius noted this could disincentivize promulgation of CXs.

We also realized that whether the TG requires support for one, or
multiple, simultaneous CX selections, the TG must also separately decide
whether to subject all, or just a subset, of the custom opcode and CSR
ranges to CX multiplexing.

We discussed the TG survey extant custom extensions across the RISC-V
ecosystem, to collect the general ranges of custom opcodes used and the
total number of unique custom opcodes used per system.

We decided to continue to study whether the interleaved legacy + CX
instructions scenario requires more than one selection (as in the basis
spec), and therefore tabled the decision to to include or exclude the
multiple subranges requirement.

---

Subject requirements:

* *[discuss] Allow splitting the opcode space into more manageable portions.*
* *[discuss] Support, or allow logical enhancement for, multiple opcode spaces.*

Issues summary

1. CX multiplexing enables composition of multiple CXs and their CX
   software binaries in a system.

2. CX will add unpriv CSR(s) written by software to select the hart’s
   current CX(s) to perform subsequent custom instructions & CSRs.

3. In basis spec, N=1 CSR, one current selection, applies to all custom
   instructions & CSRs.

4. [discuss] N>1 CSRs, N current selections, each applies to a segment
   of 1/N of custom instructions & CSRs.

5. Many CXs will not use or require the full complement of custom
   instructions & CSRs.

6. If N>1, a CX’s custom instructions/CSRs opcodes/indices can be
   segment-agile. In effect each CX custom instruction can be accessed by
   an opcode/index from each of the N segments.

7. Within one CX software binary (**) compiled instructions that use
   any specific CX will be hard coded to a specific segment and specific
   opcodes/indices.

8. Advantages of N=1: minimal, essential, simple, frugal

9. Advantages of N>1: multiple selections enables fewer CSR writes when
   using several CXs (incl. legacy custom extensions) in a hot code path.

10. Both alternatives require CSR writes when calling across CX software binaries.

11. Issue is conjoined with CX ABI requirements and design.

12. Calls across CX software binaries require at least M<=N CSR writes
    to establish the M CX selections required by the called binary.

13. Calls within a CX software binary that uses M>1 CXs may see fewer
    dynamic CSR writes to switch back and forth amongst CXs.

14. Unclear how often the inessential additional complexity of N>1
    will provide value: how often will a single CX software binary rapidly
    multiplex among >1 CX?

15. An important use case is rapid reuse of 1 CX and the CPU’s legacy
    custom extensions. Consider the case where a CPU’s compiler injects
    legacy custom instructions and we must interleave those that with the
    CX’s custom instructions. We need to have a good story for this. One
    approach is to disable compiler synthesis of legacy custom instructions
    in CX software functions, but this seems undesirable and potentially
    hard to build.

16. TG charter mandates forward compatibility considerations / planning
    for future versions. Here, the TG will decide how much, or all, of custom
    opcode and CSR spaces to make subject to CX multiplexing. Providing a
    subset now, e.g. custom-0 or custom-1 only, can be revised in a future
    CX major revision to providing the entire range, but not vice-versa.

17. Guy noted (Jan's restatement:) in an organization that controls
    1) CX A, 2) CX B, and 3) a CX software binary that uses CXs A and B,
    the organization could define a new CX AB = A (union) B, and use that,
    with a single selector, in their CX software binaries. This is true,
    and if this were common it could reduce the value proposition of multiple
    selections/subranges. However, this TG is chartered to make independently
    authored CXs and CX software binaries compose well, so it’s a bit of
    a red herring.

18. Custom-2/3 are not available for RV128 systems.

