# Meeting Minutes 2024-11-7

- Attendees

  Darius (Bluespec)
  Rich Fuhler (Andes)
  Peter Lieber
  Victor Lu (Individual)
  Paul Sherman (what/me/worry)

- Development plan and ratification plan
- Request for volunteers

  Rich asked to add llvm support to development plan.

  Rich also asked about trace synchronization, or to clearly
  articulate that it is pushed off until later.

  Discussed that request for volunteers did not include bare
  metal/RTOS.  Darius said he will track items identified for
  development plan, but not identified as necessary and lacking
  resources, as they would be the first to be cut (i.e., bare metal,
  RTOS, llvm support).
