# Meeting Minutes 2024-10-10

- Attendees

  Darius (Bluespec)
  Rich Fuhler (Andes)
  David Weaver (Akeana)
  Guy Lemieux (UBC)
  Jan Gray (Individual)
  Al Martin (Akeana)

- Upcoming meetings
- Development plan
- Request for volunteers

  Guy suggested that RISC-V has resources that can help with some
  things like ACT and SAIL.  Would be advisable to request assistance
  sooner to get queued for resources.

- Requirements discussion

  Some discussion of scope of logic interface discussion with respect
  to memory access in composability criteria and in the logic
  interface.
