# Meeting Minutes 2024-08-13

- CX TG Requirements Ad-Hoc Meeting: Single or Multiple Contexts

- Attendees

  Darius Rad (Bluespec)
  Jan Gray (Individual)
  Guy Lemieux (Individual)
  Victor Lu (Individual)

- Discussion

Jan proposed meeting rules, objectives (better mutual understanding of
the proposals, but not a decision).

Guy asked for clarification about the specific topic of the discussion.
Darius stated that the topic is multiple potential requirements related
to the general concept of one or multiple state contexts per hart,
and not a simple binary question.

Jan presented his position that multiple state contexts per hart is a more
novel, more complex, but more flexible, more performant, affordable, and
preferable approach to achieve the goals of the task group. His position
was presented from the perspective of the user programming model and
suggested other perspectives be clear about which level of abstraction
they are referring to. He described a number of use cases in support
of this position.

Guy questioned whether objection to multiple state contexts is due to
memory table mechanism in basis specification, for which he is designing
an alternative.

Guy proposed the following requirements:
* Must efficiently support hardware implementation for single context per hart
* Should efficiently support hardware implementation for multiple contexts per hart
* Must convey a single programming model in either case
* Must support >1 context per thread without context switching

Darius presented his position that a single state context per hart is more
consistent with existing RISC-V extensions and that existing mechanisms
for context management in the operating system and in user level software
may be utilized to achieve the goals of the task group. He indicated
that the behavior of one state context per hart is more consistent with
the expected programming model at the ISA level in all privilege modes.

There was discussion regarding whether a single state per hart or multiple
states per hart need to be mutually exclusive requirements.

There was discussion regarding whether extension state should be
considered hart state, or not, or if both behaviors could be or should
be supported.
